[Music]
hi
i'm liberty from bbc good food and i'm
here to help you
make your christmas magical by showing
you how to bake gingerbread
two ways we're going to start with a
lovely gingerbread loaf
followed by really easy gingerbread
biscuits so yeah let's get started
okay so to start with all we have to do
is add our
sugar so i've got some brown demerara
sugar here and all we're going to do is
pop this
in a medium sized pan along with
the butter this is just unsalted butter
because you can always add a pinch of
salt in
at the end and then
just some clear runny honey
it adds such a lovely flavor to this
dish
and then all i'm going to do is heat
this up so the sugar melts and
everything gets combined
this mixture has all melted the butter's
melted
the sugar has also melted and the whole
mixture is
combined so now all we have to do is add
the milk and a little bit of vanilla
extract or paste or whatever you have
so i'm going to pop that in there i'm
going to give it a good stir
to combine everything together and then
all i'm going to do is pour it
into a bowl just to cool it down
slightly more before we add it to the
flour
so our butter sugar mixture has finally
cooled down slightly
and all i'm going to do is take the
self-raising flour
and baking powder and pop it into a big
bowl
now i'm going to combine that with our
lovely spice mix
which is cinnamon ginger allspice
cloves and nutmeg and pop that in there
give that a little mix just so they're
all combined
and then i'm going to add in one large
egg
give that another mix up
so the egg's in now and all i'm going to
do is pour in my
melted butter and sugar mixture just
gradually
to avoid any lumps
all i'm going to do is pour this now
into the tin
just move it over so it's all the same
height so this is all ready to go now
i'm just going to pop it in the oven
for about 40 minutes and being sure to
not open the door otherwise it will sink
so yeah just gonna pop it in the oven
so it's had about 40 minutes in the oven
and i'm just going to take it out and
check that it's cooked
amazing so it's had about 40 minutes in
the oven and it looks lovely and golden
brown
so to check it's cooked properly through
the middle all i'm going to do is take a
skewer
and pop it in gently take it out
and it should be clean amazing so the
skewer is lovely and clean which means
it's cooked
right the way through it's a lovely
golden brown color
so all i'm going to do now is leave it
to sit in the tin
to cool for about 10 minutes then
transfer it onto a cooling rack
until it's really cold and lovely to
slice i'm so excited to eat this
i can't tell you how delicious it smells
so
i'm going to pop it onto a wooden
chopping board and just slice away
this looks so delicious i'm really
excited to dive in
it's also really delicious with a cup of
tea and also
if you do want it in the morning just
toast it and slather it with butter and
it's delicious
so good so now
on to our really easy gingerbread
biscuit recipe it's actually my recipe
and the loaf is
barney's from our cookery team too we
joined up to bring you gingerbread two
ways so to get started on this
all you have to do is add your dark
brown sugar
into a small saucepan so once you've add
the sugar into
the saucepan all you have to do is add
some golden syrup
and some unsalted butter
[Music]
so now your sugar butter and golden
syrup is in a small saucepan
all you have to do is put it on a medium
heat and just stir it until everything
is melted together
then all i'm going to do is pour it into
a bowl just to cool down
before we add it to the flour
the lovely smooth mixture that we've
just melted together
has cooled slightly in a bowl i have
some plain flour
and some bicarb just mixed together and
all i'm going to do is add some cinnamon
and some ground ginger they give it such
a lovely flavor it's not too strong so
perfect for children
it's really delicious so all i'm going
to do is add in
this mixture into the flour and just
stir it all together so i've just
brought this together
using a spoon and now i'm going to get
my hands in there
and just combine it a little bit more so
what we're going to do is roll it
into two pieces of greaseproof paper
this stops the bath of putting flour
down on the surface
and it just allows it to be rolled out
so much easier
great so that has all come together now
and i'm just going to pop it onto the
greaseproof paper and start rolling it
out
so we're going to roll it to the
thickness of about half a centimeter
this is such a workout but it's so worth
it and really fun to do with
children as well okay i think we're
nearly there
a little bit more so that's about half a
centimeter and all we're going to do now
is put it in the fridge for about 30
minutes just to set
up so that when you cut the little stars
out it's so much easier and more precise
the dough has had about 30 minutes in
the fridge just to chill
and harden slightly now all we're going
to do is cut out a little
cute star shape
so we have two really cute star patterns
here i've got a bigger one and a smaller
one
and all i normally do to make a cute
little design
is put the big cutter down cut out a
star
and then cut a star from the inside of
the bigger star
so you have a cute little star cookie as
well
what i would say is put the little stars
onto a separate baking sheet
because they do take less time than the
bigger stars in the oven and you don't
want them to burn
so i'm going to cut some more out some
big ones and some little ones and just
keep going until i've used up all the
dough
so i've just cut out these lovely little
stars putting the smaller ones on one
tray and the bigger ones on the other
i'm going to pop them in the oven at
about 170 fan
for around 10 minutes but i think the
little ones might need a little less
time
so it's always worth keeping an eye on
them in the oven
just so they don't go too dark
[Music]
so i'm going to make the icing to
decorate these lovely gingerbread
and it's the simplest thing ever all it
is is some icing sugar
and some water so the trick is to add
water a little as you go
just so you don't make it too liquidy to
start with
you're looking for a consistency that
just about falls off the spoon
and so it stays in one place when it
goes onto the biscuit
so this is the consistency you're
looking for it will just about fall off
the spoon
and which will make it easier to pipe
with but it won't run off the biscuit
so these lovely gingerbread have come
out of the oven
and cooled completely on the baking tray
and now it is time to ice them
so we have our icing that we've made
and all i'm going to do is pop it in
some paper piping bags
that i've made earlier now these are
really easy to make and you can make
them at home or you can just use a
normal piping bag
so you want to fill it about halfway up
and then all you have to do is close
both sides
and then fold it down
i'm going to cut the end um just a
little bit
of the way up so the hole at the top is
really
thin
and then what you can do is just test it
on a little bit of greaseproof paper
to make sure it's coming out well
so here we have our two ways of
gingerbread we have barney's lovely
gingerbread loaf and
my ginger biscuits perfect for children
now this isn't a competition
but i would love to know which one you
will be making at christmas time
and so yeah if you do make them please
do tag us on instagram we're at bbc good
food
and i love looking through our feed to
see which ones you've made
so yeah have a lovely christmas